it's very good
can you hear me well yep
yes thank you for confirming we'll give
it about
a few minutes and then we'll get going
with today's lecture
i can see people are joining in so we'll
give it a few minutes
and then we'll get started with today's
lecture in a few minutes
yes mr wong i can see you can you have a
question go ahead please
uh yes just curious for our groups um do
we have to be in the same
tutorial like the same lab to no
group not necessarily okay you can be
you can be across
the lab groups or across tutorials as
long as you belong to the same subject
okay all right thank you thank you
just to let you all know that i've
released assignment
2 today um it should be available on
canvas i will send a
notification out to that effect as well
you can see the assignment to
description
on canvas now also
one other point is that the labs
start from next week onwards
every one of you should have received an
invitation to
enroll into an amazon web services class
for the labs if you have not received
please contact me after the lecture and
i can see what can be done i can see
that many of you have received and are
already enrolled into the aws class so
that's great
however perhaps if you enroll late or
um i mean you you may not have received
the invitation that's
perfectly okay if you can let me know i
can still add you into the into the
class
okay we'll give it another one minute
before we get started with today's
lecture
we do have quite a few things to cover
today
so
okie dokie let's get started with
today's
okay let's get started with today's
lecture
good evening everyone welcome to
the second week of this subject now
as you all would be aware of i have made
detailed videos for not just this week
but
but i will be making detailed videos for
all the subsequent weeks as well
and these would be updated on canvas
at least a few days before the lecture
for example the
videos um for this week were already
uploaded
on on the weekend or so
but nonetheless for everyone's benefit i
would be going through the lecture
slides
in detail so that we get to unpack
the details and also it provides you all
an opportunity to ask questions as well
now if you all remember last week was
the introductory
week and we discussed a number of
important things
we discussed about what is cloud
computing
and we discussed in detail about what
the first
flavor of the first type of cloud
service which is
infrastructure as a service is moving on
in today's lecture we would be
discussing about
the remaining two flavors of cloud
services
the first one is platform as a service
which is
pass and the second one is
software as a service or sas i have got
two different
modules that i will cover today one is
on past
the first half of today's lecture and
the second half
is on sales excuse me
so what i would be covering over
in the first half is as follows
and these parts part one part two and
part three
i have broken them down because if you
see the
videos that i've made on canvas they
have been broken down
into three different parts so that you
can
go through the content part by part
first of all in the first part we will
i'll try to explain you all what we mean
by a computing platform
and what does platform as a service mean
then in part two we will look
at the architecture and the working of
google app
engine which is one of the major
platform as a service providers
and in part three the final part of the
pass
module we will look about force.com
which is
another major platform as a service
provider
so let's get uh
let's get into the next part of the
lecture which is about computing
platform
i'm not sure how many of you have heard
the phrase before
but i'm very confident in saying that
you certainly have used a computing
platform before
if you look at a formal definition of
computing platform
you will find a number of different
definitions
however all these definitions they agree
on
one important part or one important
bit that is if you are a software
developer
or if you are into the business of
developing software
you need access to a range of different
software resources as well as hardware
resources
for example if i'm a software developer
or if i'm running a software house
development house the first thing that i
would need
access to is the compiler the software
development environment
if i'm making use of dotnet i need the
dotnet framework
if i'm making use of java i need the
java development framework
but i'm not just able to develop
software just based on
the software development framework only
apart from the software development
framework
i need a number of different things to
be able
to develop software applications
for example this software development
framework
would need an operating system to run on
it can't run in isolation i can't
develop
a an application which is just running
on a software development framework it
needs an
operating system furthermore developers
use a range of different tools to help
with the software development
the most common form of them
is what we call as ides there are
number of different tools to help with
debugging
testing all of this suit and
so at the very minimum i need
for for developing a software
application i need
the compiler or the development
environment
i need tools that go with this compiler
like the ides
for i mean i need tools for debugging
testing
i need an operating system but
these software resources
they can't just exist in a vacuum
i need appropriate hardware resources
as well to develop a software
application
in other words now i believe it's i'm
hopeful that it's
easy for you to see that if i'm into the
business
of providing developing executing
and provisioning software application i
need
access to both hardware and
software applications the hardware
applications or the hardware resources i
need access
to could be things like virtual machines
or storage devices
and the software application could be as
i said
things like the compiler and other ides
the term computing platform refers to
the
combination of these two is the
combination of
both hardware resources and hardware
software resources and hardware
resources combined
that can be used by a developer
to build program and deploy
software applications in other words
computing platform is meant for software
development software execution and
software
deployment so
again coming back to the definition
um what does platform as a service mean
now that we have understood what a
computing platform means
what does platform as a service or pass
means platform as
a service is a short form of
computing platform as a service instead
of saying computing platform as a
service
it is simply referred to as platform as
a service and this platform as a service
is exposed to the end user or
is provided to the end user using a very
simple interface and i'll give you many
examples at least two examples of this
as we go into the latter half of this
lecture
once again let us look at what
the definition the formal i hope you
understand from a conceptual viewpoint
what path means but can i give you all
like a few seconds
to go through the formal definition of
pass
so once again this definition is by
nist which stands for national institute
of standards and technology and if you
would all remember the definition
of infrastructure as a service
if i remind you therein it said that the
capability that is provided is things
like
web servers switches hardware resources
basically
now contrast that with what is being
said of
platform as a service the capability
provided to the consumer is to
create and deploy software applications
so that's the key the remit of platform
of as a service
or the purpose of platform as a service
is to provide the ability to
write code and deploy it at scale
and how do you do that it provides you
with
access to the underlying compilers or
programming languages
their library their libraries the tools
the most commonly used tools that
software developers use like ides
or collaboration tools or debugging
tools or testing tools
they come pre-packaged with a typical
pass
environment so
as you can see platform as a service is
intended towards the developers
is intended to by which you can write
code
deployed in an environment in a very
easy manner
you don't have to worry about
provisioning hardware
you don't have to worry about procuring
hardware you don't have to worry about
procuring
the license for the compilers
and you don't have to worry about
operating system and those things
so if i'm a
software developer what does this mean
for me
well the first major implication is that
as a consumer
if i'm consuming pass i don't need to
worry
about upfront capital expenditures
these capital expenditures could be
associated
either with procuring hardware on which
my code runs or
could be the software that i need
like the licenses and those things as a
consumer
i would be exposed to the platform as a
service
via a software framework and you will
see that in a little while
when i log in to force.com and show it
to you you will be exposed to the
development environment or the console
or the
development environment through a user
interface
what that means is that you can write
your code there
and then you can save it and you can
choose to deploy the application
so the user has visibility over the code
that the user writes however
unlike infrastructure as a service
the user does not have visibility and
has no control
over the underlying hardware
on which my code is running
if you want that level of control that
you want to be able to say that look i
want
my application to run on
a virtual machine of that size or a
gpu then perhaps
pass is not for you you should look at
procuring
iwas and then installing your
your your development environment and
those things on top
one major implication of pass is that as
a consumer
i'm not worried and i'm not responsible
for
any ongoing maintenance and that's a big
thing
so i am freed up with maintenance of
both the hardware and the software
resources
okay anything as a consumer any
application that i build
i will have control over it in the sense
that
how i deploy who i provision it to
but the underlying hardware over which
it
runs or executes is simply opaque to me
as a pass consumer that's a major thing
to
be mindful of in platform as a service
so this is just to visualize how
platform as a service works and how
pass is provisioned so i just said if
i'm in the business of
providing platform as a service then
i um i i take a lot of
um i mean i have i take a lot of
hardware resources
and i put them in my data center
and on top of that i put
all the software resources that
developers typically
need to build execute
test debug software
um software applications so
things like operating systems um
various different compilers that would
be made available in a past
environment now in order to share this
widely the both the hardware resources
and the software resources
in order to share this widely
past providers they run a virtualization
layer we will discuss more about
virtualization in next week's lecture
wherein you will see how virtualization
in passwords
so using the virtualization layer what
happens is
if i've got say here i've got six
different
um or five different end users
each one of them would interact using a
simple web browser
however my request when it goes through
virtualization layer
it it gives me the feeling or
i get a slice of the underlying hardware
resources
and i get the feeling or i don't i mean
virtualization layer
is what is responsible for multi-tenancy
in other words all these different end
users
they are interacting at the same time
while
none of them know that they are sharing
their resources
with a different user and and
virtualization layer is
key to enabling multi-tenancy
one question that you may ask is how do
platform as a service providers
bill you for resource provisioning and
again there are different
pricing mechanisms and strategies
different pass providers use different
pricing mechanisms
but some of the most common ones are
depending upon the number of lines of
code in your software application you
may be
billed for it so if it is say less than
000 the price could be free for example
if it is more than that
there could be a charge for it another
example is depending upon how many
instances
of the past environment you have taken
so if you have signed up for two users
you will be billed
twice if you have signed up for three
three times as much another common
uh pricing mechanism is the number of
applications deployed what i mean by
that is
if i am sitting on top of a
pass environment depending upon
the application count of how many
applications
i am executing or running i may be
charged
based on that and last but not the least
is depending upon how much
underlying resources like hard disk
storage processing my
applications are consuming so
these are only some of the pricing
strategies
and most says most past service
providers they use
some of these and it's not uncommon to
see them use
all of them or a combination of them as
well
so uh i hope this has given you
a good introduction into what uh
platform as a service is let's get
uh let us try to move ahead and try to
understand
um google app engine which is
one of the platform as a service
providers
so the beauty of google app engine
is that as a developer you can
write code and you can execute or
deploy your code on google hardware
now this is the same hardware that
google uses
to provide services like google search
um services like google maps for example
um so it gives you the same
it gives you access to the same hardware
so using google app engine you can
write applications or web-based
applications
and you can deploy them in a matter of
seconds
google app engine has been there for a
little while
the preview version came out in april
um um and then the stable version the
one that we are currently using came out
in
2014 there are continual updates
that are provided by google app engine
so
like any other platform as a service
when i'm making use of google app engine
i am exposed to the development
environment only i have no control or no
visibility
over things like which
virtual machine my development
environment is running on
what is the capacity of that virtual
machine what's the ram capacity
um i have no control over it all that
is left up to google my job as
a platform as a service consumer
is not to worry about infrastructure not
to worry about hardware
but to worry about writing code
deployed and let the platform as a
service provider in this case google
let them do their magic
this is the logo that you see for google
app engine
so um as i said you can
google app engine like any other
platform as a service provider you can
it is web-based alternatively for people
who prefer a desktop client
there is a desktop client as well my
eclipse you can download
and then you can write a google app
engine code in it
originally when it was released it was a
python based environment
but now they provide exposure
or they support a number of different
programming languages
like php python node.js
dotnet go so on so and so forth
okay so um
one programming language that i'm not
sure if you have seen before
i'm sure you have heard of php python
node.js um
net one programming language that you
may not have heard before
is go so what is
go go is an open source
programming language that has been
developed by google
google app engine supports go
in the sense that they have a go
compiler okay
a typical use case for go that you may
want
to use is when you when you want to
use multi threading or you want to run
multiple
threads in your program go
supports multi-threading on top of
google app engine okay so if
your application or if you want to make
use of concurrency mechanisms by
leveraging multi-core or multi-threading
go is the programming language for you
now in order to
in order for you as an end user
to be able to just simply
write code in any of the languages that
are supported by google
deploy and let google do
its job or magic there are a certain
number
of services google services that you
should be
aware of okay and
in today's lecture we will try to go
into them and try to understand
what role they play in in executing and
making your
application available to the world so
there are four different components or
services
within the google app engine that are
that play a very crucial role the first
one is the google file system
this layer at the very below here number
one
the number two is google data store
this the the one on top
uh which is also i mean google data
store the third one
is the google web servers the layer
the on top here and the last but
by no measure the least is memory store
which is the one in blue here so let us
try to go and try to understand
what purpose and what role each one of
these four
components play when you
deploy your application on the google
cloud
the first component is the google file
system
and you may have heard about google file
system if you have done any
reading or any research about google
i'm pretty sure you would have come
across google file system before
google file system is a proprietary
as in developed by google and
distributed
file system it is not specific
to um to um
to go to google app engine as well
google file system is used by a range of
different
google services google search
makes use of google file system google
maps makes use of google file system
google docs again
makes use of google file system as well
so what is google file system what
google file system does
is that as soon as i in the context
of google app engine as soon as i save
my
application code it takes the code
it breaks it down into smaller chunks
each chunk being of of size
64 mega megabits so
it takes it and breaks it down to maybe
say five
different chunks each chunk being 64
megabit
and it stores these chunks in a
replicated manner
the reason why these chunks each chunk
is stored in a replicated manner is due
to fault tolerance
if something happens in one part of the
globe
and that chunk is lost there are still
replicas
at least two more replicas in other
parts of the globe as well
okay so in the context of google app
engine
the role of google file system is to
store
your application code and it stores
it in a fall tolerant and redundant
manner okay google data store
is a service that has been
developed by google as a means
or to store your application data
let us take a very simple example if i'm
making an e-commerce application
okay i i will have the logic
setting a resident in my code but then
i'll have
data for the e-commerce application data
like
product data like customer that is
my applications data is not stored
in google file system it is stored in
google data store google file system
is used to store only and only my
application
code in contrast google data store
stores my application data
so google data store is built
on the notion of object orientation
what that means is if i've got
a product entity
it is modeled as an object similarly
a customer is modeled as an object so
they
very heavily make use of the notion
of objects that we know of
in object orientation however
there is one big difference there though
in
object orientation if i have a
product class or a customer class let me
take an example with the customer class
if i've got
the attributes of the customer class as
first name
last name and date of birth all the
instances that are defined of the
customer class
will have exactly those three attributes
not one more or not one less
that is that concept is fundamentally
different
in the notion of data objects in google
data store
in other words uh the
the schema or the structure of the
object
of customer in google data store it
doesn't have a structure
or a schema depending upon the needs of
my application
i can define more attributes for the
customer
or less attributes depending on the
demands or the needs of my application
so for example again just to drive home
what i'm saying
is again here i can have
one customer object in google
data store with the attributes of name
address and date of birth
i can have another customer object uh
with the attributes of name
passport number and bank account number
you can see that the schema or structure
of these two
objects this one and this one they're
quite different
and they do not they do not have a
uniform
schema as we traditionally know
of objects in object orientation
and that is how while
google data store is very heavily based
on the notion of
object but these objects
in your application do not necessarily
need to have the same
schema as well
so as of april 19 which is about
i mean less than two years ago google
data store has been
superseded by google firestore
i would recommend you to hop onto this
link
and go and read about it google
firestore
is much more resilient and much more
fault tolerant
than google data store so
moving on uh the other
if if i've got as you may be imagining
if i if i've got
if google data store is used
or my application data is sitting in
google data store
i need a mechanism by which i can
interact with that data and by that i
mean
query it manipulate it
delete the data or um or update it
google cloud sql or gql in
in in short form is a fully
managed service that is integrated
with google um cloud
platform for developers the
gql think of it as very similar to sql
and it is used for querying updating the
the data in the data store the syntax
is quite similar to sql as well
this is the this is the logo or the
symbol
of the gql service so
one thing before i go ahead it's
important to
understand is that using google app
engine you can make
many different forms of applications
however one of the most common or or one
of the most
common form of applications that end
users
make is web-based applications wherein
there is a
customer and you are providing your
um and you're providing your services to
the customer as well
so in google app engine you write your
code
click on the execute button and deploy
and it picks up one of the
google virtual machines sitting in their
data centers
to deploy your application and as i
mentioned before
because this is not infrastructure as a
service
i do not have the liberty or the choice
to say
the specifications or the type of vm
that i want to
that i want google to use
for running my application furthermore
it may be the case that a lot of user
request is
coming into my application
and my application may be may be
handling requests
at capacity as a developer
you do not need to worry about load
balancing automatically it will load
balance
your application for you without you
needing to worry or even to set it up
so as as the number of requests to your
application keep on increasing
it will automatically spin up a new
instance
if if needed and redirect
existing or current requests to there
so these google web servers they are
like the workhorse
um these google web servers if i may
just go back to the diagram here
these google web servers they are the
workhorse
of executing and running
your application and these google web
servers they are not located in any
one data center they are located
across the globe they
access your code from a google file
system which as i said
is for your code only they get the code
from here
and execute in the google web servers
similarly they get your application
data from google data store
and they do they do the
the processing and provide it to the
customers
one thing that you might be wondering is
as i said
in google app engine i mean you can have
i may be running a web-based application
from here let let us suppose that this
is me i may be running a web-based
application
and it may be running on this machine
and maybe after some time this machine
starts to hit the capacity and it is
running at maximum capacity
so google it then spins out another
instance
maybe here maybe this second one
automatically load balance
um the question might be if i am still
interacting with my
uh with this virtual machine here
and if my request now starts going to a
different virtual machine
how is my session completed
and this is where in order to ensure
the completion of a session
from end to end google
came up with this service of memory
store
okay memory store serves
the purpose of a distributed
ram storage if i think of this
this whole google app engine as a
distributed machine
gfs serves the purpose of a distributed
hard disk google data store of a data
storage
this is where all the compute the google
web servers are where all the compute or
the processing
happens memory store
serves the purpose of a distributed
ram so when i say a distributed ram
what may happen is that
if my code can be
accessed and if there if it is going to
be accessed
multiple times they may store it
in the memory store access
um the time it that it takes to access
data from the memory store
are many order of magnitudes
faster than the time it takes to
google file system or to google data
store for that matter
as well okay so google memory store
as i said as i explained you all
serves the purpose of a distributed
ram or a distributed cache
it serves two main purposes
in google app engine the first one
is that as i said is get and write
requests
to either memory store are much
faster than google data store so it
serves as a cache
number two is that it it is
a very important mechanism and i'll give
you an example
for completing the session a
completing a given session although
that session may be handled by more than
one web server in the in the google
app engine okay so
let me in order to illustrate my point
let me just
give you a life cycle of a typical
example of a session
in this session there are three main
things happening
the customer is entering his or her
details
number one in then um
they are being validated internally to
make sure that
the details are correct
if the validation is successful and
invoice is retrieved by the customer
and the customer pays for it using his
or her credit card
so this is a typical session of my web
application that i have deployed in
google app engine
so let us say that i have started the
http session
okay and assume that web server a
sitting in one data center somewhere
in google data centers gets to handle
my session okay and as it goes
it is handling the session and at this
point in time
it gets overloaded but but the session
is not complete yet
although it is overloaded and it's not
completed what it does
is that it stores the intermediate
result of the session in memcache
so that so far as i said assume that the
user name and authentication details
have been retrieved
the user has been successfully been
authenticated
what it does it is just it just stores
those details in memcache at this point
in time
the and here because the
web server a has been overloaded
google app engine adds another web
server b
to carry out or help web server a
so what web server d b does is
it picks up and instead of starting the
session from
from scratch again it just
retrieves the intermediate information
okay it retrieves the intermediate
information from memcache and it says
okay so
far uh the the user has been
authenticated
let me do the next task in the session
which is retrieving the invoice for the
user or generating an invoice for the
user
but as web server b is doing its job
it gets overloaded as well so again
what web server b does is it stores this
intermediate result in
a in cache as well okay
and in order to help both web server a
and web server b google app engine adds
another web server automatically load
balanced which is
to handle this session and this session
what what web server do is it goes and
pulls this intermediate result of that
session and says okay
the customer has provided the details
they have been authenticated
the invoice has been generated the next
thing to do is to
pay for that invoice and webs
the web server c just carries out or
handles the payment
and the http session ends
as you can see here without memcache
it wouldn't be possible to complete the
session
it acts like an intermediate repository
by which it it acts like a
cache wherein intermediate results of a
session can be stored
when the web server is when the web
server is overloaded
so that the next web server can pick it
up from there
and and hit the ground running
so as i said this is how
all the four different components they
work with each other
to deliver web applications
at scale using google
app engine so in google app engine
as soon as you have written the code and
you have deployed
the application is made available on the
web
and as i've been emphasizing time and
again
unlike infrastructure as a service where
i can
go and say okay i want an instance with
that capacity and with
so much ram and those things in platform
as a service
that's not possible here the objective
of platform as a service is for you as
developers to be able to write code
deployed in a in a matter of few seconds
the application that you deploy is
automatically load balanced across a
number of different servers you don't
have to worry about
load balancing again this is very
different from infrastructure as a
service
where you have to worry about load
balancing
um and and and in google app engine
you have a you have a free tier wherein
if your application is consuming
resources
within a given limit of say the number
of web requests being served
the number of cpu hours and those things
it's free
but if you go beyond that you get
charged for it
so like any other cloud service provider
there are usage constraints with google
app engine
the usage constraints are a mechanism or
a means to ensure
that all the users they get
a fair share of the limit a fair share
of the resources and there are not
users who get a lot of resources at the
expense of others
you can see the limits by selecting this
link on quotas
time and time again they keep on
changing the quotas
as well and of course
um in google app engine once you
have reached your quota for say the
number of web requests
served or for example the amount of data
you can store
in google data store
then you can always
relax some of these quotas by purchasing
premium services
okay so as i said the constraints are
intended
primarily to ensure that everyone
gets a fair share of the resources
so this is if if you are developing um
in the google app using an ide
this is how typically a google app
engine id
will look like as i said this is desktop
development in contrast you can
also have what we refer to as
web based in which you write the code in
a web environment completely
okay so that was about google app engine
i'll stop for some questions in a little
while
but before i do that let me go and
explain you all about the second
platform as a service which is
force.com now force.com
is originated originally as
a sas software as a service application
force.com has its roots in
salesforce.com salesforce.com
is a i mean
even to this state it's a customer
relationship management crm application
and when it was released i mean it
became very popular
its popularity continues to this day
because it offers the ability to
customize and
build applications in a very intuitive
and very quickly
we will be focusing we have got about
four lectures
on force.com and how you can easily
build applications on
force.com so
because there was so much demand from
people
to use a similar use look and feel to
the
way in which salesforce.com is
what they released was force.com which
is
platform as a service
force.com it allows you to develop
software applications in a very
simple easy to use manner
okay so one of the key things if i
just take a if i show you all just give
me a second i'll show you the user
interface
for force.com
so this is how the user interface for
force.com looks like
as i said this was initially released as
a sas application and it got very
popular
there was demand for from users to be
able to
build similar applications which
looked like this so
force.com one of the key things of
force.com is that
it allows as a user to
develop applications using what i call
as
declarative mechanisms in other words
you do not need to write code to be able
to
build applications you can build
reasonably
powerful applications through just
declarative or click drag and drop
mechanism
this is how the typical user interface
looks like and as you can see
as i explained before let me go back
as i explained before i mean force.com
provides its capability very similar to
google app engine to perhaps
millions and millions of different users
um however a key point of difference
between force.com
and say and google app engine for
example is that as
i showed you just now you it has a um
it has a customized view it has a view
that i can see
whereas in google app engine you perhaps
have just a
dashboard and an ide and those things
so the question is how does
forge.com work how do they how do they
deliver this functionality
to perhaps millions of users at scale
do they have dedicated
instances or resources for individual
users
or do they use shared stack of resources
across users okay now the first thing to
note here is that
no platform as a service provider would
have dedicate dedicated stack of
resources for individual
users they all make use of
a shared stack of resources and by
resources i mean
both the the software environment
to write applications and the underlying
hardware
as well but the question here again is
if i just step back and i
show you here
the question here is if i see this
screen how does it deliver these
customized views to me
i mean it's quite sleek user interface
you see how how does it manage to
deliver it does it pre-compile them does
it
keep it inside and then does it show
inside
so when fords.com
started their multi-tenant architecture
which i'll explain a little in a little
while
it was quite revolutionary or cutting
edge at that stage
force.com what it allows me to do
is when i go and
instantiate or create a new instance
i will see that there will be already
some
predefined data we call them predefined
objects
whether you like it or not it will be
there i would encourage you to sign up
today and when you log in you will see
this predefined data
similarly when i there is predefined
functionality like
being able to say create a profile
being able to create queues manage users
these are inbuilt functionality
however it doesn't stop there so there
is predefined data
there is predefined logic but
as a pass environment it allows me as a
user to
add further more data or customize
data as well and to make things
interesting
add even more customized logic as well
so one would wonder
how does it all come together i mean
there is obviously
one second please
so one would wonder that if i've got
all of these things how does force.com
manage
to deliver things like my predefined
data
predefined logic
customize data customize logic and
deliver it to multiple users
at scale and by scale i mean millions
and millions of users
so as i said when it was released and
then say
i've uploaded a paper on canvas please
take the time out and read it they came
up with quite an innovative architecture
at that time so quite simply what they
do
is they have a shared stack of resources
so
for all the users for all their tenant
base
they use the same underlying stack and
by this i mean
same underlying software resources same
underlying hardware resources
however in this shared stack
they have what is known as
groupings so all the
core application data that a new user
should get that is defined and that is
defined
as metadata okay the core
application functionality the ability to
define a new object
new application new relationship
all that is described and explained
in metadata okay so
this information the core application
data
which is present in the shared stack
in metadata format and the core
application
information again present in metadata
format
is made available to any new user
who signs in okay however
at the same time when i go and create a
new object
like student object for example that
is stored in the same stack of resources
however it's not stored as an object
itself
it is again stored as metadata
okay um i can go and write new
functionality i can write new code i can
write new
logic that is also stored
as a separate group and again that is
stored as
metadata in other words what it does is
these
bits and pieces of information and logic
is described as metadata
and is stored in the shared stack
of resources so what then happens is as
a user let us say
user c is logging in which i am doing
now
the user interface i will enter my
username and password
and this goes to the polymorphic
application abstraction think of it
as an authentication service
it looks at my username and password and
say yep
this username and password is correct
this is farooq's username and password
and it passes a token saying that this
request is genuine
to the runtime engine the runtime engine
is the key here what the runtime engine
does
is it's a compiler it takes
farooq that is me my specific data
not anyone else's data my specific data
it takes my specific functionality which
may i may have
defined before it takes these two things
code application data and code
application
functionality which comes for which is
common for
all users and it compiles them at
run time so the screenshots that i am
seeing the the the sleek interface that
i am seeing
is not pre-generated but is compiled at
runtime
this runtime engine runs on ssds
and those things so it's lightning fast
okay
and once the it is generated
this information is fed back to my user
which is user d
and i get to see the information which i
was showing you all
some time ago okay so
as i said this is the working of
force.com and
uh for your understanding i have i've
i've explained this in a very
step-by-step manner
step one which is related to the
polymorphic
which is related to the user interface
and polymorphic
application abstraction is nothing but
authentication
after authentication a token
the fact that it had the user has been
authenticated
is passed to the runtime engine okay
the runtime engine is the key component
here
it is the one which does the bulk of the
work
in generating the user interface that i
see
so depending upon the user that has been
authenticated which is user c
it picks only my data only my
functionality or logic
and the core application functionality
and logic which comes pre-packaged and
bundled with every new instance
compiles them at runtime and delivers
them
so this is how force.com works
so that brings me to end of the first
half of the
lecture so we did discuss about
computing platform what it means we did
we did discuss about platform as a
service
and we looked at um google app engine
and also forged.com as you can see their
architecture
is very very different they work in very
different ways
but they do the same job the job of
pro the job of enabling developers like
you and i to be able to write code
deploy in the cloud and make it
available to users
so i'll stop here and perhaps take a few
questions before i
move to the next module
does anyone have any questions that i
can address before we move to the next
module please
yes professor i have question yes
professor um in past
the user consumer have the visibility
over
hardware or not no no
he just only access the software the
environment applications
just the just the compiler part
i wouldn't say even the software i mean
if i'm using the word
software it would mean things like
operating system and all they have no
visibility of the os as well
okay in past consumer only access the
software
compiler there is no like infrastructure
type
things no okay i just want to confirm it
look as a developer let me ask you this
question as a developer
your immediate concern would be write
code
deploy right yeah
you are not fast about if my
uh code is running on a
vm of size two terabyte or four terabyte
as long
as the service requirements are met
and as long as it is load balanced
right you know so i mean what they do is
they
they you you do not have the ability to
to pick and choose
the underlying hardware okay professor
i have second question in the component
like
memory and ram cache you said if the
load is very high
ram cache is intermediately it carries
the
request and give to a second
server if there is no
yeah if there is no overloading the
balance is right
then there is need of ram or not
look as i said mam cache is used for two
there are two main use cases of
memcaching in google app engine the
first one is what you just described
if there is if the web application or if
the vm does not
get overloaded
the reason the second reason why
memcache is used
is similar to the reason why we use
ram in our laptop or desktop access to
ram
is much faster than access to hard disk
so if the google web servers
if they need to access my google data
store data again and again
it is order of magnitudes faster
if that data is stored in uh as
in cache in in memcache and accessed
quickly
and when you don't need it just delete
it okay
thank you i have third question
professor actually i write it these
questions
uh in um force.com
there are there are two predefined
built-in functions
yes uh we can uh as a developer we can
write
uh our own coding yes yes of course
however however the propriet however the
language
the look i i purpose i chose
google app engine and forge.com on
purpose
they are two very different pass engines
as you can see google app engine
supports a number of different
programming languages
right in contrast force.com
supports only one programming language
which is
proprietary it is its name is apex
okay okay it does not support
java no i mean nothing else only
force.com have the compiler for apex
okay thank you professor thank you thank
you
look uh any other questions can i get
going with the second
module
yes yes you just mentioned that the
post.com has only
one compiler i wonder
not one compiler i said has the compiler
it supports only one programming
language that's what i said
is it something that they have
deliberately did it
to get for some uh industry advantage or
is it something that that they have been
putting in the technology
no i look look
they developed this compiler and i
believe that
it was intentional
i mean there is no there is no other
programming language that they support
except apex for logic
okay look um i'll get going with the
second
uh uh half of today's lecture
i sincerely apologize that i may run
a little bit over 7 30.
for those of you who have another
class or lecture you're most welcome to
leave the session after 7 30. um
my sincere apologies for it it will not
happen from next time
next week onwards it's only that today's
lecture is a little bit
longer the lecture is being recorded so
you can listen to it
later as well so
on to the um we discussed about we have
already discussed about two
main flavors of cloud services
infrastructure as a service and platform
as a service
the last button by no means the least
and the one that i'm pretty sure that
you all have been making use of
whether intentional or non-intentional
is
software as a service so
um before i go ahead i mean um this is
the
learning objectives of today's lecture
and again i have broken this
down into i've broken the lecture down
into two parts
uh from a recording viewpoint so
in the first part i'll talk about what
um software applications are what does
sas
actually mean what's the difference
between sas
and on-premise but the real deal i mean
the
the the the actual crux of today would
be
is how can i integrate on-premise
applications
with sas which is in the second part now
before i go ahead as i said i am pretty
sure
that almost every one of you are
consuming says
office 365 which i'm sure you all are
making use of
is a classic example of software as a
service
um so but if if you look at the world
around you i mean
it's full of software applications
uh on my laptop i've got um
email applications i mean if we go to
the
um customer i mean there is the crm
application there is the human resource
management application
in the finance sector they make use of
things like
um myob in the
logistics they have very special niche
software
so the whole world today i mean
software is the key driving factor for
it
however if you look at just before the
cloud
forget office 365 for some time
forget cloud for some time in a typical
non-cloud world the
lag time between identifying the need
for a software application
and procuring it and actually
maintaining it
is quite lengthy for example
if i am in a business or even as a
consumer just
single consumer what i do is in a
non-cloud based world depending upon my
needs
depending upon what i want to do
depending upon my business requirements
i identify as software application oops
i need for example if i'm in the
finance world i say okay i need my op
okay
then the next step would be is to ring
the representative or
send them an email and say okay i need x
number of licenses
okay third step would be
i can i may either be shipped the
application or
and then i'll have to install the
application many times
if i'm a medium organization or even if
i'm a large organization
this installation is done not by me but
by a team which means i need to have
additional expenses to
hire a team to manage it to maintain the
software application
but that's not where it ends
there are repeated patches the vendor
would send those
patches or upgrades to me and my
in-house activity team
or my in-house i.t team would be
responsible for
managing those patches and upgrades
so as you can see the job of
procuring software
maintaining it managing it is
quite onerous especially if i'm a
single consumer or if i'm a small and
medium organization
furthermore it is expensive
from the viewpoint that it does it's the
expense is
not just the cost of the software
application
but with the overheads as well like i
need a team to manage it i need an
ongoing effort for patching and those
things
okay so um as i said i need
in a typical non-traditional environment
i need
upfront capital investment think
from the perspective of a single
consumer i mean single person
or a small medium organization if i'm
asked to make an upfront investment for
a software application
it's it's a big expense on me okay
i need to find out how many licenses i
need and i need to procure those
licenses but as i said this
inve it doesn't end there there is an
ongoing investment in manpower
in training patches and upgrades
and after all you have done this and
after all that
you have invested in a software that you
identified
such as myop for example you find that
something else gets released in the
market
and because you are locked in because of
your investment here you cannot go
and consume a different software
application
okay so
how can cloud help let's see let's try
to reason how can
cloud help infrastructure as a service
provider as i said
they provide you with virtualized
hardware
virtual machines virtual storage
switches and the lot okay
you need to be able to
build applications on top it's not
software it is hardware
we just spoke about in contrast we spoke
about platform as a service
pass and as i said they provide
virtual past instances which
provide a software developer people like
you and i
to be able to write code and deploy them
okay good but this is not of immediate
value to a non-technical user
who just wants to consume software
i don't want to write code i don't want
to provision hardware
i don't want to configure hardware i
simply want to
consume software okay
so this is exactly where
sas comes in sas providers
they provide completely
built completely managed
software application okay
you can directly use it it is
completely built to the extent that it's
you can directly use it and you do not
need to
configure it or you do not need to
maintain it think of
office 365. it's completely built
for you completely managed you don't
have to do any programming on top or any
modification on top you can simply
consume it
via a browser
so these applications they may be made
available via a browser like maybe
office 365
or even in google docs for example
or in some instances what the sas
provider can do is here
the sas provider can download a client
on the consumer side and using the
client like dropbox i can access
applications from there
so again dropbox is an example of
sas provider so
what does consuming software mean so as
i said
we we looked at consuming infrastructure
looked at com consuming platform
what does consuming software means
in simple words consuming software means
that
the software application is completely
pre-built
and is provided as a utility to the
consumer
you take it you use it and you pay for
what you use
okay it is delivered on demand what that
means
is the sas provider may be delivering it
you need one license of office 365 here
you go you need 10
here you go okay it is delivered on
demand
in some cases what may happen is the sas
provider may
develop the application but may give the
responsibility to a third party or a
broker to
sell it okay these sas
applications they are all delivered over
the internet to the consumers
okay and it is critical to
note like very similar to platform as
the service providers
they all share the same code base
so in other words it does not mean like
in this case let's take the example of
google doc for example
google has written the code once
and irrespective of who is accessing
google doc
they are using the same code base which
is
has been written to enable google docs
and the same underlying hardware
in other words they are not giving or
they are not
allowing segmented or
or special um
[Music]
hardware or software to any consumer
so this ladies and gentlemen is known as
software as
a service this is the third flavor of
cloud services
and in simple words what says does
is it provides completed
software applications over the internet
to consumers people like you and i who
consume them
so i drew this slide so that
it can it can help you in trying to
understand how sas provisioning work
and a key point that i want to emphasize
in making
in in this slide is that all
sas consumers they make use of the
same underlying hardware
and software resources no one has
any dedicated resources so let us say
that if i'm a let us say that if i am
into the business
of sas provisioning what i can do
is i can either
have my own data center in which i put
some hardware resources
or i can go to an infrastructure as a
service provider like
aws and instantiate as many
virtualized hardware resources as i need
then on top let us say i mean um
if i'm what i would do is i will write
the
code or the logic
for my sas application okay
so this is the this is the framework for
that as in the compiler
and this is the software application
that i write
this software application is shared by
all my consumer base
all my consumer base shares not just
the software application
but the framework as in the compiler it
has been written in
and also the underlying hardware
resources
so what happens at the end of the day
is if i'm a sas provider
i set up this stack or
sas provisioning stack as an end user if
i'm a size consumer
i put in a request it is comes to the
service layer or the interface
the v the virtualization layer what it
does is it takes this request and it
says okay this request is for consumer a
it invokes the software application
the virtualization layer ensures that
only my data is being retrieved
not anyone else's data and
it goes back to the sas consumer
one important thing to note here is that
the sas provider
only because they have the
same code base and they have the
same shared framework and hardware
resources
they can provide their
they can provide their service at scale
one of the key things of sas is
very limited customization think of
google docs or think of
office 365 for that matter if you
want the office 365 to behave in
a certain manner you have no choice it
is what it is
there is very little customization on
offer in sales
and the reason for that is if sas
providers
get into the business of allowing and
customizing
for and catering for each individual
customizations
they would not be able to provide their
application
at such a large scale how many requests
will they handle how many customizations
will they handle
so they have a standard software
application
that is provided to millions and
millions
of users across the globe okay
so again we have gone through the
nist definition of cloud
of infrastructure as a service
of platform as a service now let's go
through
the definition for software as a service
can i give you all 10 seconds to quickly
go through the definition please
so unlike other
unlike the definitions of infrastructure
and platform you see the definition of
sas
is very simple the capability provided
to the consumer
is to use providers applications
so it says very simple
the capability is that the provider is
providing an application
on cloud infrastructure and that's what
it is using that's it nothing more
the applications are accessible from
various client devices
um such as it could be through web-based
or as i said they may pro they may
provide a and a program interface for
you
to handle the sas application so
unlike um infrastructure where you can
have
virtualized hardware virtualized
switches
virtualized memory unlike platform where
you can have
a virtualized computing platform here
it's very simple
virtualized software application that's
it
okay so all the as i said just to
emphasize
all the sas users share the same
code base this is the code base
for the sas application again
all the sas users share the same
computing platform
that means the platform that has been
used
to write the code base so as i said
because of this too the sas providers
are able to deliver services at scale
and that is economically profitable for
them
so as i said i mean
this is what sas is now in order to
understand
um if i'm as an organization consuming
sas
what does it mean first and foremost
thing
it what it means is that i am getting
a pre-built completely managed
software application great but
in sas there is limited customization
only
one size fits all that's the approach
that says providers take
that being said there could be overheads
in terms of integrating
i mean if i'm consuming it for example
if i am
uh if
if i've got some in-house applications
and they are
reference and and if i've got some
applications in the cloud
for them to be able to integrate and
talk to each other
this is not something that happens
instantaneously this is an overhead that
has to be managed by
by the consumer and yes providers will
help you
but again integration is something that
has to be managed by the consumer
there could be cost and tasks associated
with migration
in and out of sas as well so
one thing that you should be very aware
of
from a security and from a privacy
viewpoint
that in a non-cloud or a non-sas
world your data is sitting within your
organization
inside your data center that's great you
have responsibility for it
in says it's not sitting in your data
center it is residing in sas
providers data center and that in itself
is not necessarily bad sas providers and
cloud service providers are far better
in
managing security than than
you and i can do in our data centers for
example they have
extremely experienced staff in managing
security
but what you should be aware of is the
legislation policies that may come into
effect
so if i am um providing my the
if i'm storing my data in sas
and my data is
the sas provider is actually storing
data
outside australia for example
then different data security and privacy
laws may be applicable because
my data is currently not resident in
australia
in some cases for some applications
your data or the data for example i mean
if it is a
critical information it can't leave the
country
so these are issues that you should be
aware of
and these are some of the these are
typical issues that i want you to
explore
in your assignment one as well okay
so invariably local laws of the host
data center are applicable
so this is an area that needs to be
managed
very carefully when you are consuming
cells so one of the key things
is is that consuming sas
is not an all or nothing proposition
okay for example
it may be if i'm an organization let's
say
if i'm running a small business it may
be difficult for me to move
everything to a sas environment and
there could be
a plethora of reasons for that one of
the reasons might be is
i'm concerned that look that's a service
provider
i'm not sure how they will handle my
customers data
and that could be genuine reason another
example could be
is that i have recently made a big
investment in a software application
that is sitting in house
and hence i don't want that investment
to go
waste so whilst i'm happy to move to the
cloud
for if if say if i made a recent
investment in payroll
application for example i want
my payroll related activities to sit in
house
whereas others such as customer
relationship management taxation
management and all
can perhaps move to the sas
the good thing is as i said sas is not
an all or nothing proposition you can
mix and manage your sas migration
approach
what i mean by that is depending upon
what you feel comfortable with
and depending upon what you can do you
can manage sas
for some application you can selectively
consume sas
and there are few different options in
consuming sas and i'll go through them
here three different ones
option one which is relatively simple is
for
every software application that you are
currently using in your
organization find a sas equivalent
and you move completely to the
you move completely to the cloud so
after moving
there will be nothing i mean you'll
perhaps have a very lean in-house
application and
everything will sit in the sas
environment
that's option one that's quite
simplistic because
as i said due to various reasons that
is not always possible
the other approach is that you move the
majority of your applications to the
cloud
i mean for example what you could do is
um
if i say a payroll management
application i can move that to the cloud
i can identify a sas service provider
a who which is in the payroll business i
can move my data
to the cloud and what you could do is
that data which you feel as sensitive
like maybe the list of all the employees
all my customers you can still keep it
in house
so in that case what happens is this
payroll management data
here which i have moved to the cloud it
will
work with the list of all my existing
employees to accomplish its job
so again there is talk of
a sas application working with in-house
application
so that's option number two option
number three
is also similar to option number two
the only difference is that in option
number
three what you may choose to do is you
may choose to retain the
bulk or the majority of the processing
in-house
for whatever reason and only minor
aspects are moved to the cloud an
example of that could be
i may have a payroll management
application
okay that i'm i choose
to retain in-house and
this payroll management application may
work
with an existing tax management
application which is sitting in the
cloud
so as you can see there are three
different options
in consuming sas and
quite clearly it's not an all or
nothing proposition you can
go with option one which is completely
moved to the sas
option b and option c
are both consuming size but consuming it
selectively okay so irrespective of
whether
you make use of option a
or option b or option c
what this emphasizes
is that is the fact that there is a need
to
integrate or somehow
synchronize or integrate in
on premise or in-house applications with
sas
applications and
i would go ahead and say that with sas
one of the
key activities that needs to be done
is this integration integration between
applications which are sitting in the
cloud sas applications sitting in the
cloud
and applications which are sitting in
house
so this calls for as i said integrating
sas
with on-premise applications so in
response to this
in the market there are a lot of
integration brokers
for different sas applications there are
different integration brokers
what does an integration broker do
the job of an integration broker is
quite simple
yet very important and powerful
the integration broker is responsible
for integrating a sas
application with an on-premise
application
not just integrating when i say
integrating it means
synchronizing data managing data
dependencies it takes
care of the whole thing okay
so as i said depending on the sas
application i mean
these days you will find um
integration brokers that are application
focused
but it's important to understand
the overall architecture of the
integration broker
what does it do and more importantly
how does it do its job
irrespective of which integration broker
you look at
it will have similar architecture as to
what we are discussing now okay
so there are two concepts that you need
to be very careful of and very
mindful of when discussing about
integration broker
the first one is
data source so data source is nothing
but
it could be sas
or it could be an on-premise application
where some changes in data have occurred
and these changes need to be
communicated to
other other entities so that they can
synchronize themselves
okay as compar
as contrast to the data sync is
the the node where the data which has
been
changed from the data source will need
to be
synchronized so think of data source is
the
is propagating the changes data sync is
receiving the changes
and synchronizing it and this has to
happen
data source needs to propagate
the changes and the data sync needs to
receive
so that they are synchronized and they
can carry out with their business
activities
and that they have a single source of
truth on data
okay so integration broker in simple
words
is responsible for managing integration
between
data source and data sync what the
integration broker does
is a few different activities it
receives the data from the data source
okay and and there are modules to do
that
and then it sees okay is this data that
i'm receiving is it in a correct format
okay do i handle this format then it
says
who what is the data sync where do i
need to send that information to
and if there is a need to transform that
data
it does that as well so let's go
and understand the architecture of
a integration broker and more
importantly with more emphasis
on how exactly it does its
job or role so as i said
this is an on-premise on on your
left-hand side is an on-premise
application on your right hand side is a
sas
application okay either one could be
data source
either one could be data sync does not
matter
in between is this integration broker
both of them on premise application and
sas application i have plugged them
into the integration broker it is the
job of the integration broker
to carry out all the integration related
activities okay so there are
two main sub components in the
integration broker you will see quite a
few different modules
there are two main sub components the
first one
the layer on the top this one
you see here this one is integration
broker pipeline
this is the workhorse this is the engine
where
all the integration related activities
happen
happens in the integration broker
pipeline
the metadata layer is think of it as the
logic layer as the brain that drives
how the integration activities are going
to happen
so i'll give you a few examples as we go
through
and it will become very clear to you
about the distinction between
integration broker pipeline which
carries out
all the integration activities and the
metadata layer which describes
how the integration activities need to
be carried out
so the one on top is the integration
broker
below is the metadata layer okay
so integration broker pipeline as i said
is responsible for carrying out
all the integration activities so this
this one here on part
and you can see that there are four
different
modules in the integration broker
pipeline
each module which we will go through in
a little while
carries out a well-defined specific
integration related activity okay
so this it is modular in nature that
means that if i want to add more modules
i can add more modules the first one
is the data security module think of it
in this way
maybe this is the data source on my left
and this is the data sync on my right
this information this data source is
sending some information
the first
module that the data will hit
is the data security module the purpose
of the data security module
is to do a few things first of all
when this information is coming in it
needs to
authenticate the sender of that
information
make sure that the sender is legit
and is not being spammed okay
let us suppose i mean it can make use of
some authentication mechanism and those
things
so that's one major activity that the
data security module
does the second thing that it does is
once the sender has been authenticated
it does a virus scan just to make sure
that there are no
virus or trojan horses that are being
sent
on purpose to the data sync okay
and then many times this
incoming information will be encrypted
and why not it's being sent over a
public internet system it will be
encrypted
so the for it will also decrypt the
information
and then do the virus scan and then the
authentication
so in summary in essence the data
security module
is responsible for carrying out all the
security related functions
over incoming data if you want your
integration broker to do more activities
you would just write more code in the
data security module
nice and easy okay
next the second module after after
checks and balances have been met by the
data security module
we go to the data validation and
transformation module
let me take an example here again i'll
go back
maybe this on premise application
it handles dates in
y dd y y format okay whereas the one in
the cloud
they handle in perhaps a slightly
different format maybe just
um y y y y t d m
different format
when this information is being sent from
that from the on-premise application to
the sas application
if it receives if the sas application
receives information in
dd mm yyyy which is the format of
on-premise application
it will not be able to understand what's
happening
how should i how should i understand it
what are the semantics
it is the job of the data validation
and transformation module to transform
the data in this case if it is if the
on-premise application is dd
mm yyyy and
here it is yyyy ddmm
that transformation is done
by the data validation and
transformation module
if this is not done data can flow
through
but when the sas application
synchronizes the data it'll it will
result in an error
okay or it will not happen correctly so
the second module
is primarily responsible for
determining the incoming data if it is
in a valid format
and if there is a need transform it to a
valid
format so it does many different
activities
in case if the incoming data is not in a
valid format it rejects it
it then transforms it as well you might
be wondering
what is the logic or how does it know
how to transform from one format
to another format please hold on to that
thought
for few minutes and i will come to that
when we think of the when when i talk
about the metadata layer
the third module and perhaps one of the
major modules in the integration
broker pipeline is
how can um how can the
data source and the data sync
come to know of changes okay
how can i inform my counterpart
of changes it's perhaps okay or easier
to inform when there is
one sas application but what if
i've got 100 sas applications that i'm
consuming
or 50 sas applications that i'm
how can i how can the data source
where a change has happened inform
multiple data syncs
and that is the job of the
synchronization module
there are three different ways in which
the synchronization process can be
carried out
and again to explain them i've got a few
figures
the first process is known as the
polling process so
let us assume that this
on the left hand side is an in-house
application okay
and on the right hand side is a sas
application
and they both want to inform each other
of any changes that is made
in the counterpart so that they can keep
themselves
um up to date or synchronized
okay so in the first in the polling
mechanism
what happens is it starts with the
in-house application so
at time t the in-house application
asks the sas application have there been
any changes at your end
and at time q the sas application
initiates a poll and asks have there
been any changes at your end
and this pole as you can see this pole
is initiated by one party
towards another and from one party to
another as well
is repeated at periodically recurring
intervals
of time so at time t plus n
the in-house application will query the
sas application
again just to make sure if there are any
changes
at time q plus and again again
there is a poll to query if there are
any applications
again as i said this keeps on repeating
at time t
plus 2n in-house application will repeat
will query will poll the sas application
and at time q plus 2n the sas
application will poll the in-house
application so as you can see
the basic idea of polling is that both
the parties
which want to be synchronized or be
informed of
updates at their end
or at the counterparts end they poll
each other
and this poll is repeated at
periodically
recurring intervals of time okay
quite a simple mechanism but as you can
see
the the issues with this is
i mean there are perhaps multiple issues
first as you can see that i'm only
talking about two applications here
in-house and sas i'm not talking about
10 50 or 20 different applications
but even with two applications you see
there are
so many messages that are being
exchanged
just between two applications imagine
the number of messages that will be
exchanged if i've got say
10 different applications that need to
be synchronized
so in other words the first
disadvantage of polling is that it does
not scale very well
okay the second disadvantage is that
if you see the pole is repeated at
recurring intervals of time so here n
then another n n so
valves that may be okay for sum
for real-time applications it's
certainly not good enough
okay so these are the two key things
that you should be aware of
when considering a polling mechanism
so as i said it is not suitable for
real-time applications
and it does not scale very well there
are a large number of messages
that are exchanged okay
uh so that's the polling mechanism
what can we do to address some of these
things
especially the need for
real-time applications for them to be
synchronized to each other
the next mechanism is known as push
mechanism it's quite simple so in push
mechanism you can have a
data source on the right hand side and
on the left hand side you can have a
data sync
the idea of the push mechanism is that
as soon as there is a change in the data
source
just push it out to the data sync
in other words as soon as there is an
event happening in the data source some
small
change just inform it uh to the data
sync
unlike polling there are no polls being
initiated
and this is an even based in the sense
that as soon as there is a change
just push it out so this is
much better i mean this mechanism is
much better than
the polling mechanism in the sense that
it is used it can be used for real-time
applications
and it it it can potentially scale
well as well
the third and the final synchronization
mechanism which
is quite commonly used is known as
publish and subscribe mechanism
um if i think of a publish and subscribe
mechanism
let me give you all an example um
now the publish and subscribe mechanism
it combines
both polling and push mechanism
we use for example on canvas when i
go and post an announcement
saying that this is what i've uploaded
today's lecture for example
you see that a notification is sent out
to you all saying that look
the subject coordinator has
has uploaded something that is an
example of a publish
and subscribe mechanism what happens in
publish and subscribe mechanism is
as follows so i can have
an on-premise application and i can have
many different sas applications 100
maybe
okay in publish and subscribe mechanism
there is something known as a
notification
board or a shared repository okay
so all these applications on premise
sas 1 2 and n they
subscribe to
the board saying that okay i'm on
premise application
i'm interested in knowing of any changes
or
any announcements made from sas
application n for example okay so
again many people subscribe
and then for example the sas application
and when there is something here it
when there is a change it publishes the
change
at the shared location unlike polling
and unlike push
the change is not relegated to a
counterpart
the reason here we are talking about
integration between hundreds of
different nodes
so the publish the change is published
to
a shared location like a blackboard
or in this case like canvas page for
example
okay
and then after that what happens after
that
is if as soon as the change has been
published
the entities who have subscribed to this
changed
um they will get notified immediately so
in this case
on premise and sas application one get
notified immediately so
when they are notified what sas
application one
and on-premise do is they
contact the data source the sas
application n
and they synchronize the changes so as
you can see this
is publish and subscribe mechanism it
scales
very elegantly it can be used for
real-time applications
it can be used for integration between
any number of different
data sources and data sync
the last one but by no means the least
is the
routing module so the routing module
what it does is
very simple i mean after the
authentication has happened
after security related activities after
transformation
after the synchronization the job of the
routing module
is there is to route the data to the
appropriate
data sync you may ask
how do they know the appropriate data
sync and again
that is done using rules
and which rules so what happens is
in the metadata layer the metadata layer
i mean so far i've been talking about in
the integration broker routing module i
said
it routes to the data sync
synchronization
it does the synchronization whether you
use
polling whether you use um publisher
subscribe
um transformation it does the
transformation
the question is how what's the logic
behind it
what drives these activities that is
specified in the
meta data layer okay
so the metadata layer it specifies
how the integration activities are
performed
think of the metadata layer as the brain
in the integration broker so it
encompasses the
logic to enable integration activities
and these are in the form of rules
so for security it will it'll it'll
specify
logic for things such as how do i check
for viruses
which antivirus anti-virus do i use
how do i clean data uh how do i decrypt
data which
decryption algorithm do i use for
validate and transform operations
how do i do the transformation how can
what's the logic behind it for
synchronization
which one of these three am i using
for routing how are the routing rules
to the source or the sync being
specified
so these are this is what the meta
data layer specifies as in how the
integration activities
are performed so
that brings me i mean in terms of sas
there are
i mean as i said you look around and you
will see these days
many different types of sas applications
uh the most common form of them are
consumed
via the web using a web browser
google docs is an example office 365
is another example on the other hand
there are examples of sas applications
that you can download
and install as a client dropbox
which provides data storage data sharing
data synchronization i'm sure many of
you are using dropbox
if not dropbox onedrive again
it's not i mean it's web based but you
could also install
a client as well so that brings me to
end of
the second half and for today's
lecture as well we discussed about sas
in general what sas says and how
businesses can use sas
and we discussed about the differences
between sas
and traditional applications and we
discussed
in detail about the integration broker
so as i have said before i have this is
just the repeat of the
of the recorded videos that i'm doing
for everyone's benefit
now that i've finished the lecture i
throw the floor
open to questions you can feel free to
ask me any question
i do apologize that i've run over time
today it will not happen from
next week onwards it's just that today's
lecture is a little bit
um has a little bit more content than
others
please feel free to ask me questions
please professor i have a question
yes why we need to integrate in-house
and source application together
it's dependent on need and demand
based on i mean based on customer needs
and demand yes
okay thank you
any other questions
um we were just wondering about the um
aws and the pass
and as i went mentioned and we were
talking about the elastic beanstalk if
it is that pass on the aws or
whether it isn't there were a bit of
different opinions
on that that's a good question elastic
bean stock is a pass
and we'll and and we i'll explain you
why it's a pass because it gives you the
ability to upload your code
and run it right
then light sail aws light set would that
be
a combination of pass
i i w a s and um
so um i'm sorry i have not used light
cells so i
i can't comment but if you can describe
me what it does i can perhaps help class
it is a